listen so i've been waiting since 2015
for this movie and for release dates
later
i think we got it personally i don't
think it's worse than these other x-men
movies that have come out before it but
for it to be the final goodbye just kind
of sucks to be the last installment that
we ever get from fox's x-men franchise
because disney
snapped and scooped them up it is kind
of disappointing
it is also a movie that's half trying to
be a horror flick and then
also a young adult blockbuster and they
kind of struggle more with that shift
between the two than the group does
escaping this facility
but nonetheless i think if you've been
hyped for the movie you'll find it to be
an okay rented
for everyone else probably just to
stream it so if you're interested in
catching it uh spoiler warning right
here right from the jump
shout out to raycon for always
supporting this channel and to disney
dishonor on your whole family
let me explain so the idea for the film
came from director josh boone and his
writing partner nate lee who've
known each other since they were infants
and they ran their own comic book shop
they had originally put together the
best comic book panels of the new mutant
series that they could find and turned
it into a graphic novel mixtape of sorts
which they submitted to fox with a pitch
for a trilogy which
fox spot each one was sort of a
different sort of horror movie the
second one was going to be an alien
invasion
movie and then the third one's sort of
more like a magic
uh anya related you know inferno one i
know boone has worked on a couple of
stephen king adaptations and has been
leaning and doing a lot more horror work
but
the approach to the movie felt like they
wanted to have a horror movie
but at the same time they just wanted
boone to do what he did with his
previous movie as well when it comes to
fox flicks there's always going to be
reports of scripts changing leading up
to the movie
while they're shooting the movie after
the movie but this movie even had its
marketing shifting back and forth
between the dope horror that we got with
the first trailer and then how it was
less and less that the closer
got to release which took years
according to boone 70 of the movie was
done when disney came in and bought fox
and started even more delays we went
from waiting all of 2018
all of 2019 hell 20 20 months each feel
like a year so
damn it it feels like it's been a decade
since this was announced the cast
interviews looked like a 10-year reunion
for the gangs and some have completed
literal franchises since filming this
and i'm sure they could have done some
sort of pickup shots like every movie
does but
even before the merger it sounds like
they were given less than donnie did the
irs
and you know the script for a very long
time had warlock in it
about six months before we went to go
make it we really had to cut the budget
in half uh to be able to go get it made
so we lost a lot of stuff we'd love we'd
love to see obviously in a later movie
now you know it's bad when a studio
doesn't even hold screenings for its own
movie you know usually to avoid reviews
they had no digital screeners in the
most digital era that we're in
it's like disney wanted to dump this
movie so bad that they saw a global
pandemic when
half of theaters had half a theaters and
to them that sounded like a prime time
to drop this
disney couldn't even get the
co-creator's name right in the credits
which is just
insane to me hell i'm sure they would
have thrown this on disney plus or hulu
if they didn't have it in the contract
that
this bad boy had to go to theaters but
even then it's not even coming to those
first since
hbo max has the rights to it for a
period of time so
if you've ever wondered what's more
confusing than x-men timelines streaming
rights
that said another spoiler warning as we
get into the plot of the new mutants
now for starters it is said that we
didn't get one more of those x easter
eggs that we've gotten with
all of the other intros with the fox
logo but now that that's gone
you know one i don't like the new name
change but i guess
two at least in the last one they went
all out with that x and giving us the
easter egg that almost felt like i was
watching a ven diesel film
and i just find it funny that with the
previous ones they've had no problem
showing the marvel logo
but they made sure with this one you saw
that in association with
anyways our main character is danny who
gets the opening and closing lines of
the film with the comic backdrop being
the demon bear arc
danny finds herself trapped in the
facility with the others after her
entire family gets destroyed
but the thing is unlike everyone else
there danny doesn't know that her power
is to manifest people's biggest fears
and that creates a solid horror
narrative for everyone who's trapped in
this facility including herself
it also helps that it was shot in the
same hospital as shutter island which
gives it the spooky feel
they even have screenings at this place
which i'll
pass on that one it pretty much runs on
the same logic as nightmare on elm
street which it clearly had as a big
influence
even though this shot which we got in
the trailer for whatever reason is a
deleted scene
didn't even end up in the movie
dr reyes is the main only one who's
running the facility and watching over
them at all times she's doing her best
ratchet impression
and just so happens to have the super
powered force field but
they just they manipulate this lady too
easily way too easily
the movie like many others also tries
very hard at
plugging in all of these 80s breakfast
club homages because you know there's
always going to be that one scene where
the kids get away and
they just dance this one has that it
just so happens to also involve
spiking the doctor's tea with absolutely
no one objecting
and it's not like she's a good person
you know she does work for the essex
corporation which has been brought up in
the last couple of movies with
the diamonds on her coat and even the
millbury facility being nods to mr
sinister who's been looming in the
background
and this is a guy who's trying to be the
complete opposite of mr xavier who's
looking to train killer mutants
and so that's why he has a doctor
scoping out these kids abilities
and it was rumored that jon hamm was
going to play him and i think he would
have done an incredible job
but again nothing i really thought the
kids from logan were also going to
appear in this
you know i know that they had said logan
was its own thing a standalone but
it's not the same characters dark
phoenix then kind of brought it up
how we even got a clip from logan in
this one so i'm telling you i hate
watching a movie knowing that there's
all these setups and
they just don't go anywhere now i like
rain and i think she was the best
written character in the movie but when
i hit 9 or 10 my parents became
born again evangelical christians right
at the time in the 1980s that that sort
of caught fire
politically in the country and like you
know
politicians started to realize that they
could manipulate people
based on their religious beliefs she has
the ability to turn into a wolf that was
branded as a witch because of her powers
and even through all that trauma she
still recites her prayers to reconcile
the guilt of being a mutant because
that's how looked down upon mutants are
because the richest people in brazil
can't have a mutant for her son
but what makes the character great is
that it doesn't just focus on her
troubles but
you know there is actually a cute love
story in there again i don't think it
meshes well with the horror tones that
the movie has and i do feel they should
have focused on one or the other because
they just
in my opinion didn't balance it out but
even then if they went full out why a
flick
i think with a couple more scenes and
fleshing out their relationship
it would have held she's a character
who's not just being judged by an
external power that she can't hide
but she's able to overcome those
insecurities when she finds someone who
she connects with
internally like from the jump she
rescues dany and prevents her queen's
landing
oh oh now i understand why disney kept
halting the release
he could only cut out so much from a
movie sam
has the power to become a cannonball and
zip through the air but he also can't
control it causing the death of his
father and others in the minds where he
worked so he's struggling with that
guilt
and his accent with even the therapist
blaming him for it you think they
stopped looking for you
if you weren't here you'd be in prison
or worse sunspot was already in days of
future past but
they looked for the least hand brazilian
they could find to play the superhero
who can manifest the power of the sun at
first you think his ego is the most
difficult thing on screen but then you
see the script
wrote in a scene where they they find a
lie detector machine and play with it so
the characters can just
catch you up on who they are i know that
they wanted his dad to be played by
antonio banderas
and maybe that's why they ended up
casting this guy instead but the
co-creator of the comic called out his
portrayal
since a part of sunspot's experience
with his powers is that he tends to
clash a lot with racism every time that
it flares up so
just to be comment accurate i am a
little confused by the comments made by
the director with this decision right
here
especially because that element is still
in the movie you just swapped it out to
another character
who didn't even need it now i'm split on
her
just like i've been saying with the
movie this character feels like it's a
two-in-one for starters they have her
playing the weird girl you know the
quote unquote weird girl in the 80s
we'll be walking around with a
sock puppet but on the other side she's
the bully spitting out trudeau
one-liners
hey standing rock you want the buffalo
wing you people love
buffalo don't you oh this isn't the
hospital pocahontas
it's a cage again i don't think she's
the character who needs all this added
edginess
especially when that clip that i just
showed you edited out the pocahontas
line for the trailer
this isn't a hospital it's a cage
hmm must have been a ride sting even
though it's disney like even the doctor
had inner notes that ileana's pastimes
include
hating humanity so i'm sure her
character would have been better in the
sequels you know
it is anya taylor joy who i think is
absolutely fantastic they just needed to
tighten up her dialogue you know
in the third movie they talked about her
turning into dark child so there would
have been a dual personality thing going
on
and i just wish they would have led up
to that and not just
a third of what we got with this story
[Music]
overall the parable of the two bears
which danny keeps reciting carries the
biggest moral of the story on deciding
whether to feed the one of love or the
one of self-destruction
and that something that every character
in the movie has to deal with meanwhile
i wish the studio fed them so that we
could see where they go but that
coincides with the whole point of the
x-men as well
to show how with the team your best self
can come out as they're all going
through delusions either being haunted
by their past
their mistakes their nightmares or even
their own demon
bears there are a lot of great elements
dealing with trauma in the movie and how
others can help you through it
i just wish they revolved more on that
horror style they originally pitched
and not these one-liner bits
and let's kill the pitch in terms of
loose ends fox clearly had plans on
tying boone's trilogy back into the main
x-men storyline so
if it felt like things were missing it's
because they were they cut out a bunch
of cameos that they mentioned
were going to show up and they would
have been really cool colossus who would
be
ileana's brother was cut out because of
the budget so we never got to see him
just like her relationship with ellen
page's kitty pride which would have been
dope antonio vanderas was going to be in
the post-credits scene but
again he was meant to be the villain
that's not going to follow up
warlock was continuously mentioned but
they cut him to keep the
ps2 graphics that was demon there but
there's always the fact that disney
marvel
has plans for a lot of these characters
so once they owned them
no wonder they asked them out there was
no need for them just like a lot of
things were swamped in dark phoenix
cause they would appear in captain
marvel
pretty much the disney marvel machine
has been doing their thing and building
their roster
but in order to get what a lot of people
wanted including myself which is the
avengers in the x-men
it seems the og mutants from the longest
superhero franchise had to end
and chatting never even got to be gambit
at least we got to say goodbye to logan
i'm so happy we got to see
days of future past on screen i'm just
worried for deadpool
the one unrestricted character who told
china they wouldn't censor themselves
and then got censored when disney bought
him up and caught him up into a pg-13
version for money
which is like a it's like a disney
channel original movie by lars von trier
you
you're greedy fox is even getting
limited hard copy releases
restricted like after the merger it
seems like they're not trying to roll
out as many physical copies so i'm
actually surprised they released new
mutants on blu-ray
but even then it's like they knew
automatically the 4k release was the
ultimate collector's edition and it
doesn't even have any extra
features that the other ones don't have
there are some deleted scenes that could
have made it into the movie because they
explained a little bit more on how some
characters couldn't get out
some of the backstories but even in the
commentary for the movie
it's just an interview between the
director and his comic book idol
which is cool but the movie's just
playing behind them and they rarely
commentate i know in the era of
streaming it does feel like anything can
get picked up and maybe
maybe we will see these stories continue
because it is a dope cast
but the mouse is a stickler and while m
stands for marvel and all of its
wonderful characters it also stands for
monopoly
and i am going to miss everything not
being under the same umbrella
cause what happens to the longest
running superhero franchise and all
these stories all these characters we've
loved
once it gets bought out is there a
multiverse where we get the payoffs to
all those setups
or is this their endgame because it's
crazy to think that after all of the
delays and all of the pushbacks
by cutting off all of the threads that
set up a trilogy arc that was pitched
that even with the movie finally being
out it still feels like i'm waiting for
new mutants to come
out you think the studio would throw us
a bone one that doesn't end up in my
mouth
thank you guys for checking out this
video and as always a big shout out to
raycon for sponsoring this vid
and really overall supporting the
channel as a whole a big part of their
mantra is always pushing creativity and
empowerment
and their partnerships with us honestly
yeah i gotta count to that they let us
create the videos we want to make and
they help us out with that so this time
around they've even given us an
even better limited time discount code
so if you're at home and like to walk
around while you stream or listen to
music
you can't be tripping on all these wires
like no these wires are canceled
be it a jog or walking a dog hell if
you're going to sleep and listening to a
podcast you don't want to end up more
tangled than a disney flick so wireless
earbuds are the way to go
raycons are a great option that come at
half the price so you'll have extra for
all the dozens of streaming services
that are out there
raycons also come with a great battery
that'll last longer than the entirety of
new mutants and
all of its bonus features and the
perfect size buds create the most
peaceful noise isolation so
you don't even have to be listening to
anything you know some of y'all may just
want that peace and quiet at home right
now
they're high on snoop dogg's list of
earbuds mike tyson thinks they're sweet
and if you're holiday shopping like i
said
they've given us an even better discount
code this time around with a solid set
of colors to choose from so if you're
looking for a new pair of earbuds and
want to support the channel head on over
to byraycon.com
let me explain to get 20 off as well as
a 45 day money money-back guarantee so
if you're looking for earbuds definitely
check these out
they're a great way to listen to the
channel other than that i'm curious to
know your thoughts on the new mutants
was it worth the wait
you think there will be a miracle and
we'll get those sequels um
or do you just think disney took down
one studio just to be consumed by
another i'm curious to know your
thoughts what your favorite x-men moment
was
uh it's going to be crazy to see that
you know they just continue to windowed
lower and lower and lower to just one
studio's owning them all but we'll see
i'm curious to know your thoughts what
your favorite characters are your
favorite moments and until next time
don't forget to comment like and
subscribe
or disney will buy you